---
layout: post
title: Visual Changelog for v0.13.0
published: false
excerpt: >-
  Detailed overview of major changes in v0.13.0
---

The v0.13.0 release of the Logfile Navigator has some major changes that
I'll go over here.

## New Prompt

From the beginning, lnav used the
[readline library](https://tiswww.case.edu/php/chet/readline/rltop.html)
for handling the command prompt at the bottom of
the screen.  It worked.  But that solution had
many limitations: simplistic tab-completion;
complicated integration, which used a separate
process; glitchy syntax highlighting; lack of
multi-line support.

To address these limitations, I've written a
custom text input widget.  The new widget should
maintain almost all of the existing functionality
of readline (except for the readline configuration
file) while also improving the overall experience.

The following sub-sections highlight some of the
new functionality.

### History

History search can be activated with `CTRL-R`
and is a fuzzy search now.  The history is also
kept in a SQLite DB so that it is saved immediately
and available across sessions.  The status of the
executed command is also saved and shown in the
history so it is easy to see what worked or did not.

### Search Suggestions

Searching for a phrase is now easier because lnav
will automatically suggest the next word from the
display.  For example, when searching for
"release the kraken", typing "release" followed
by a space will suggest "the".  Pressing TAB will
then complete "the" and then pressing SPACE will
suggest "kraken".

### Comment Command

The `:comment` command, if you aren't already
familiar, allows you to attach a textual comment
to a log message.  The comment will show up below
the log message and can be styled using Markdown
syntax.

Writing a comment in a single line as afforded
by readline was pretty cumbersome.  If you wanted
to add a new line, you had to insert a `\n`.

Now, with the new implementation, when you enter
`:comment `, the prompt will immediately switch
to multi-line mode.  Markdown syntax is now
highlighted and the rendered version will be
shown in the preview panel.  To make comments
even more useful, you can add links to messages
using permalinks (see below).  Clicking the link
in the comment will jump the view to the targeted
message.

Code blocks with the language set to `lnav` will
display a "play" button next to commands that
you can click on to execute the command.  This
can be useful for saving commands/queries that were
useful when you were debugging something.

### DB Statements

The other functionality that benefits greatly from
a multi-line prompt is entering DB statements.
The SQL prompt starts in single-line mode, but can
easily be switched to multi-line by pressing
`CTRL-L`.  The switch to multi-line will also
reformat the SQL/PRQL statement to split it over
multiple lines.

### Cut to the System Clipboard

Cutting text in the prompt using the keyboard
shortcuts now copies the text to the system
clipboard.

### Saving the Prompt Contents

If you want to export the prompt contents to edit
in another editor or for some other reason, you
can press `CTRL-O` to save to a file named
`saved-prompt.lnav`.  The file is saved in the
lnav `formats/installed` directory so that it
can be executed using `|saved-prompt`.  Also,
if VS Code is available, it will be called to
edit the file since there is an lnav extension
available.  A different editor can be used by
changing the `/tuning/external-editor`
configuration.

### Mouse Support

Finally, the prompt has support for mouse input.
Left-click will position the cursor.  Click-drag
to select a range of text.  A right-click will
copy the selection to the system clipboard.

## Time Column

The "time column" feature displays an abbreviated
timestamp and log level in a column on the left
when enabled, while also hiding the original
timestamp and level.  The column reduces the size
of log messages and aligns timestamps/log-levels
across log formats to make for easier reading.
Enabling the column is done simply by scrolling to
the right.  Scrolling left will disable the column
and display the full log message as usual.

This feature is gated by the `/ui/views/log/time-column`
setting, with the following values:

- `disabled`: scrolling right works as normal and
  does not insert the time column.
- `enabled`: scrolling right enables the time column.
- `default`: the time column is enabled and the
  default on startup.

## Empty View Messages

If no files are loaded into the LOG or TEXT views,
a message will be displayed to give you a hint to
use the `:open` command or switch the view.

## Control Characters in Table Cells

In the DB view, table cells will now show non-printable
character.

## Log Message Permalinks



## Measure Collation Function

